# SSTools-Windows-
Download this for ShipStation Tools application on Windows.

Overview: This application was written in c++ using Qt Creator to create the ui. This application includes 5 functionalities including a Unit Converter, Dimensional Weight Calculator, Girth Calculator, Base 64 Encoder and a CSV Validator. The Unit Converter allows for conversion between metric and imperial units for Weight/Mass and Length. The Dimensional Weight Calculator allows the user to calculate dimensional weight of a parcel depending on dimensions and shipping provider. The Girth Calculator allows the user to input dimensions and calculate girth while selecting desired input and output units. The Base 64 Encoder allows for encoding to base64 and decoding from base64. Lastly, the CSV Validator allows for validation of Order, Customer, Product, Jet Product and Inventory CSV import files based on criteria determined by ShipStation.

Unit Converter: The Unit Converter allows for conversion between metric and imperial units for Weight/Mass and Length. The user first select if the units they wish to convert are for Weight/Mass or Length. For Weight/Mass the available units include Pounds, Ounces, Milligrams, Grams and Kilograms. For Length the available units include Inches, Feet, Millimeters, Centimeters and Meters. When either Weight/Mass or Length is selected the units for the other unit type is removed from the ui until the other unit type (Weight/Mass or Length) is selected, then the units will reappear and the units for the other unit type will be removed from the ui.

Dimensional Weight Calculator: The Dimensional Weight Calculator allows the user to calculate dimensional weight of a parcel depending on dimensions and shipping provider. The user is prompted to select Dimension Units for the input Dimensions. The dimensions are first converted into inches and rounded to the nearest whole inch before calculation occurs. Dimensional Weight is calculated from the equation ( Length x Width x Height ) / Divisor. The Divisor in the equation is determined by the shipping provider which the user will be prompted to specify. Most shipping providers use a consistent Divisor across the board, however UPS uses different divisors Retail and Daily Rates and for International and Domestic shipping. The result from the calculation is displayed in both pounds and kilograms.

Girth Calculator: The Girth Calculator allows the user to input dimensions and calculate girth while selecting desired input and output units. The general equation used to calculate girth is ( 2 x Width ) + ( 2 x Height ) where Length is the longest dimension and Width and Height are the other two dimensions. The dimensions are converted from the input units selected to the output units selected. Then it is determined which dimension is the longest of the three and the calculation is made using the other two dimensions. The ui will display which dimension is the longest and the specific equation used for the calculation.

Base 64 Encoder: The Base 64 Encoder allows for encoding to base64 and decoding from base64. The ui contains a box to input the string, an output box and two buttons labeled Encode and Decode. When a button is clicked the input string is taken and converted from a ASCII string if Encoding or Base64 string if Decoding to its binary pattern representation. The binary pattern is then taken and converted to a Base64 string if Encoding or ASCII string if Decoding.

CSV Validator: The CSV Validator allows for validation of Order, Customer, Product, Jet Product and Inventory CSV import files based on criteria determined by ShipStation. The user first selects if the file type is Orders, Customers, Products, Jet Products or Inventory import. The user can then select the CSV file to be validated. If the file type selected was Orders, then the user will be prompted to "Map" the header fields in a new dialog window. The indow allows to iterate through each header field and select if the field should be an Integer, Decimal, Date, Boolean, String and whether or not the field is a Required Field. If String is selected the it can be specified what characters are allowed including letters, digits, spaces and symbols. If Customers, Products, Jet Products or Inventory is selected the header line is validated based on the specific headers the file should have based on ShipStation's CSV import criteria. Each row and the fields of each row are then validated based on the mapping criteria or the criteria specific by the specific import type.

Author: Hugh Robertson
